How would you students answer this question?
Do you feel closer to Jehovah now
than you did before your Gilead training began?
The answer is a resounding yes, isn't it?
Maybe you can relate to these comments of graduates of past classes of Gilead.
One brother said,
Absolutely yes.
I believe I now experience more fully what it means to walk with God
and know and rely upon him as a close friend,
not merely someone I turn and look up to in prayer.
As Sister said, Gilead definitely drew me closer to Jehovah.
The way we study the scriptures with intensity
truly made me feel like the Bible was a letter Jehovah wrote to me.
Another brother said,
Jehovah communicated with such clarity which made it real and personal.
It made me feel closer to Jehovah than ever before
and that feeling will never be forgotten.
Well, unquestionably, your deep study of God's Word during Gilead drew you closer to Jehovah.
But here's the question.
How close can you be?
How close can your relationship with Jehovah get?
You saw it leap forward in five months of deep Bible study.
But is there a limit? Is there more will you ever get done?
Consider two points that answer that question.
The first one is found in the book of James, chapter four.
And let's read together the first part of verse eight.
And let's read it with that question in mind.
Is there any limit to how close our relationship with Jehovah could be?
James four, eight says,
draw close to God and he will draw close to you.
So is there any limit indicated here?
Well, it is true that in English, this phrase to draw close to someone could be applied
in a physical sense, actually standing next to someone.
And in that case, there is a limit.
You can only stand so close to someone.
But that's not really the sense of James four, eight, isn't it?
Rather, it's in this sense.
When we talk about our close friends,
we're not talking about those that are nearest in proximity.
We're talking about the depth of our relationship, the closeness of our friendship.
And so then to draw close to God then means to strengthen our relationship,
strengthen our friendship with him.
And then looking at the verse, does it appear that there's any limit to how close that
relationship can get?
The implication is, as long as we keep drawing close to Jehovah,
then he'll keep drawing close to us.
And that takes us to our second point.
And that is the real life example of God's Son.
Because Jesus drew close to Jehovah clearly.
He was taught by Jehovah.
Remember Isaiah 54 regarding Jesus' pre-human existence, where he said,
he awakens me morning by morning.
He awakens my ear to listen like the taught ones.
Does that sound a bit like your Gilead training?
Morning by morning.
Jehovah was awakening your ear.
Yet Jesus wasn't instructed by Jehovah for five months.
He was instructed for billions of years.
And during all that time, his relationship with his father continued to grow and deepen.
So then we put it all together.
You saw your relationship with Jehovah grow significantly in five months of deep Bible study.
James 4.8 encourages us to just keep drawing close to Jehovah.
And Jesus did so for billions of years and look at how close his relationship with Jehovah is.
So then what's the answer?
How close can you be to Jehovah?
The potential for your relationship with Jehovah to deepen is endless.
Well, that's just wonderful to contemplate, isn't it?
But let's make some application because this really becomes a very important overall lesson
that you take with you from your Gilead experience.
That is how your deep Bible study affected your relationship with Jehovah.
And one of the reasons why this is such an important lesson is because your success in your
assignment is directly connected to the depth of your relationship with Jehovah.
Your success in your assignment is directly connected to the depth of your relationship with
Jehovah. Now, why can we say that?
It's because of what takes place when we draw close to Jehovah through a study of his word.
In turn, with me, please, to the book of Psalms.
And we'll read the 25th Psalm in verse four, Psalm 254.
It says, make me know your ways, O Jehovah. Teach me your paths.
This is what's happening when we study God's word, isn't it? We are coming to know Jehovah God's ways.
The watchtower once said it this way. It said, as we get a deeper and deeper understanding of God's
word, we become imbued with God's way of thinking. We become imbued with God's way of thinking.
The dictionary said that the word imbu implies the introduction of a quality that fills and permeates
the whole being. So like dying a garment or leavening bread.
But here, we're talking about being imbued with God's thinking that maybe God's thinking would fill
and permeate our whole being. Is that possible?
Think back to the example of Jesus. As we discuss, Jesus drew close to Jehovah. He was taught by
Jehovah for billions of years and what was happening during that whole time. He was being imbued
with Jehovah God's thinking. And it so permeated him that when he was on earth, he could say it, John
149, whoever has seen me has seen the Father also. So in other words, everything that Jesus said,
everything that he did while on earth in every situation, well, we could imagine Jehovah doing
and saying those very things. And that is why the success of your assignment is directly connected
to the depth of your relationship with Jehovah. The more you draw close to Jehovah through a study of
his word, the more you are imbued with his thinking and the more than you will do and act and say
things as Jehovah would. And so how does this play out? Well, in your assignment, if you have the
privilege to contribute to significant decisions that will affect others in your department or at the
branch or in the field, even. Well, you want to be guided by a Jehovah's thinking, don't you?
You want to do things as he would do them. Well, the closer you are to Jehovah, the deeper that
relationship is, the more your decisions will mirror his. But of course, we know strengthening
and stabilizing others isn't always done in big grand gestures like that. Big decisions, new
organizational arrangements, quite often is the day-to-day interactions with others that really
encourages them. And isn't it true? We learn so much from those intimate conversations that Jesus
had with others, or seemingly incidental interactions that he had with others that the Bible
records. Well, you will strengthen others in similar ways. For example, when you are guided by
Jehovah's thinking in personal matters, such as in your choice of dress and grooming.
Well, others will certainly notice that, and that will strengthen their resolve to make good decisions
in these personal areas. When you are guided by Jehovah's thinking in the use of your time,
as busy as you will be when the friends see you in the ministry at the meetings working hard
in your assignment, they will take notice of that, and that will strengthen their resolve to make
good priorities in their life. Every time you steer a negative conversation to the positive,
every time you show a willingness to do humble tasks, every time you take the time to get the other
side of the story before rendering judgment. It's in all these areas of your daily life, you give
evidence that you have drawn close to Jehovah, you have been imbued with his thinking,
and you are acting as Jehovah would. And in that case, you absolutely will strengthen and stabilize
your brothers. Well, we love you for your relationship with Jehovah, and we encourage you to take
this lesson of Gilead with you, the effect that your deep Bible study had on your relationship with
Jehovah, and keep drawing close to him. The potential is endless, and this is what will ensure your
success. Well, may the rich blessing of Jehovah, your friend, be with you as you use your Gilead
training in the assignments he has given you.